[Music]
ladies and gentlemen the President of
the United States and mrs. Reagan
[Music]
[Applause]
yeah
ladies and gentlemen the national
anthems of the Republic of India and the
United States
[Music]
you
Oh
[Music]
Prime Minister Gandhi Nancy and I are
delighted to welcome you to the White
House and let me add a personal note it
is good to see you here again as leader
of the great Indian democracy which
provides a unique opportunity for us to
broaden and deepen the dialogue we began
last autumn in Mexico through our Talk's
we can help to reach a renewed
recognition of the mutual importance of
strong constructive ties between India
and the United States in searching for
words to describe the focus of your
visit to Washington this week I came
upon a statement that you had made in
Delhi when Roy Jenkins visited in 1980
and at that time you said the great need
in the world today is to so define
national interest that it makes for
greater harmony greater equality and
justice and greater stability in the
world well that is more than an eloquent
description of enlightened national
interest it can also serve to describe
the foundation of the relationship
between the United States and India a
relationship we seek to reaffirm this
week a strengthening of that racial
relationship based on better
understanding is particularly important
at this time your father once said that
the basic fact of today is the
tremendous pace of change in human life
the conflicts and the tensions of the
1980s posed new challenges to our
countries and to all nations would seek
as India and the United States do
freedom in a more stable secure and
prosperous world as leaders of the
world's two largest democracies sharing
common ideals and values we can learn
much from one another in discussing
concerns and exploring national purposes
from this understanding can come greater
confidence in one another's roles on the
world stage and a rediscovery of how
important we are to one another
Prime Minister Gandhi we recognize the
there have been differences between our
two countries but these should not
obscure all that we have in common for
we are both strong proud and independent
nations guided by our own perceptions of
our national interests we both desire
the peace and stability of the Indian
Ocean area and the early end of the
occupation of Afghanistan we both seek
an equitable peace in the Middle East
and an honorable settlement of the
iran-iraq conflict we both seek a
constructive approach to International
Economic Cooperation building on the
strong links even today being forged
between the economies of the United
States and India beyond that India and
the United States are bound together by
the strongest most sacred tie of all the
practice of democratic freedoms denied
to many peoples by their governance my
devout hope is that during this visit we
can weave together all these threads of
common interest into a new and better
understanding between our two countries
welcome the United States
[Applause]
mr. president and mrs. Reagan to me
every journey is an adventure and I can
say that this one is an adventure in
search of understanding and friendship
it is difficult to imagine two nations
more different than ours as history goes
your country is a young one over the
years it has held unparalleled
attraction for the adventurous and
daring for the talented as well as for
the persecuted it has stood for
opportunity and freedom the endeavors of
the early pioneers the struggle for
human values the coming together of
different races have enabled it to
retain its Elan and dynamism of youth
with leadership and high ideals it has
grown into a great power today its role
in world affairs is unmatched every word
and action of the president is watched
and weighed and has global repercussions
India is an ancient country and history
weighs heavily on us the character of
its people is formed by the talent best
of its varied experiences the
circumstances of its present development
are shadowed by years of colonialism and
exploitation yet our ancient philosophy
has withstood all onslaughts absorbing
newcomers adapting ideas and cultures we
have developed endurance and resilience
in India our preoccupation is with
building and development our problem is
not to influence others but to
consolidate our political and economic
in
pendants we believe in freedom with a
passion that only those who have been
denied it can understand we believe in
equality because many in our country was
so long deprived of it
we believe in the worth of the human
being for that is the foundation of our
democracy and our work for development
that is the framework of our national
programs we have no global interest but
we are deeply interested in the world
and if Affairs yet we cannot get
involved in power groupings that would
be neither to our advantage
nor would it foster world peace our hand
of friendship is stretched out to all
one friendship does not come in the way
of another this is not a new stand that
has been my policy since I became prime
minister in 1966 no two countries can
have the same angle of vision but each
can try to appreciate the points of view
of the others our effort should be to
find a common area
howsoever small on which to build and to
enhance cooperation I take this
opportunity to say how much we in India
value the help we have received from the
United States in a stupendous tasks I
look forward to my talks with you mr.
president and getting to know the
charming mrs. Reagan I thank you mr.
president for your kind invitation for
your welcome and your gracious words I
bring to you to the first lady and to
the great American people the sincere
greetings and good wishes of the
governments and people of India
[Applause]
Oh
[Music]